- [Instructor] As an application developer,
typically you'd be working with Kubernetes APIs,
but learning how a Kubernetes cluster works is useful too.
This section will explain the core concepts
of a Kubernetes cluster.
This is a slide from a previous section
where we explained the general concept
of container orchestrator.
This can be further simplified as shown.
The components on the top are collectively
called as control plane. And the components on the bottom
togeather can be called data plane. At this level,
a simplistic view is where data plane runs your containers
and applications, and is controlled by the control plane.
You rarely interact with the data plane directly.
Let's take a look at a more Kubernetes-centric view of this.
Lets look at the control plane first.
The control plane consists of a master node. The Kubernetes
master is responsible for maintaining the desired
state of your cluster. The master itself, refers to a
collection of processes, managing the cluster state,
which we will discuss in a second.
Typically these processes are all run
on a single node in the cluster.
And this node is also referred to as the master.
It is recommended to replicate the master,
for availability and redundancy.
In addition to the Kubernetes masters,
you also need to run etcd.
The core, or systems layer for Kubernetes.
Etcd is a distributed key values tool.
This is where the critical data cluster is stored.
You can optionally co-locate the masters
and etcd in the same instances,
so you only need to run three instances,
instead of six, to support the control plane.
This makes trade offs in the operational burden
when upgrading your cluster. Though, you have to make sure
you don't loose (uninteligable)
on etcd or have to reboot instances.
This is one of the many complexities you will encounter
when setting up your own Kubernetes infrastructure.
We'll talk about how this can be simplified later.
Let's look at Kubernetes master in more detail.
It consists of an API server with services REST operations,
and provides the front-end to the clusters shared state
through which all other components interact.
Controller manager is a demon that embeds the core
control loop shipped with Kubernetes. It watches the
shared state of the cluster through the API server,
and makes changes attempting to move
the current state towards the desired state.
Some examples of controllers that ship with Kubernetes today
are the replication controller, endpoints controller
and namespace controller.
Scheduler is a policy rich and apology aware function
that schedules containers by taking into individual,
and collective resource requirements.
Quality of services requirements,
hardware, software, policy constraints,
affinity and anti-affinity specifications and so on.
The cloud controller manager is a demon that embeds
the cloud specific control loops, shipped with Kubernetes.
This allows Kubernetes core to evolve independently
of the vendor specific code. For example,
there is an AWS cloud controller manager.
Add-ons extend the functionality of Kubernetes
and run on top of Kubernetes.
One such useful add-on is DNS, that provides name
resolution for objects deployed in Kubernetes.
Let's look at Kubernetes worker in more detail.
Each worker node runs two processes.
Kubelet is the primary node agent that runs on each node.
Kubelet communications with Kubernetes master
to create parts, and ensures that the containers
in these parts are running and healthy.
Kube-proxy is a network proxy on each node.
It provides Kubernetes networking services on each node.
The Kubernetes master controls each node.
You will rarely interact with nodes directly.
Let's take a look at how control plane and data plane
work together to deploy your applications.
A Kubernetes resource manifest is
used to define a Kubernetes resource.
Kubectl CLI or Kubecontrol CLI, as you may call it,
is configured to talk to a Kubernetes cluser,
which means, to the control plane.
A Kubeclt create command is given using
this resource manifest. The control plane then used
the internal components as explained earlier,
to create the resources on the data plane.
A typical flow for a java developer in this case is
to repackage the darker image with the application logic,
update the Kubernetes resource manifest
and redeploy the resource and keep going on with it.
Multiple Kubernetes resources can be easily deployed
to a Kubernetes cluster, and we will discuss those
options later in this course.